CSS module: writing modes (#41539)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_writing_modes/writing_mode_systems/index.md

## Block and inline

Before looking into the directionality of various writing systems, it's important to understand the terms "block" and "inline".

### Dimensions and directions

Everything on a web page is either an **inline** or **block** box. The _inline dimension_ is the dimension along which a line of text runs in the writing mode in use. The inline dimension is perpendicular to _block dimension_, the dimension in which blocks — such as paragraphs — display one after the other.

In an English document, with the text running horizontally left-to-right, or an Arabic document with the text running horizontally right-to-left, the inline dimension is horizontal, while the _inline direction_ is left-to-right and right-to-left, respectively. In both cases, the block dimension is vertical, with the _block direction_ being top-to-bottom. In vertical writing mode, such as Japanese, the inline dimension is vertical, as lines in that writing mode run vertically, while the block dimension is horizontal.

> The block and inline directions are determined by the writing mode of the document. They are not based on physical directions like left and right and top and bottom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The block and inline directions are determined by the document's writing mode. They are not based on physical directions such as left, right, top, and bottom.
```

---
title: Introduction to writing mode systems
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_writing_modes/Writing_mode_systems
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

CSS supports different content directionalities, or **writing modes**, including right-to-left, left-to-right, and top-to-bottom. The guide provides a brief overview of writing mode systems and their directionalities.

## Block direction versus inline direction

> Before looking into the directionality of various writing systems, it's important to understand the terms "block" and "inline".

Reviewer: This section feels complex and hard to understand. Maybe start it with a succinct definition of what the block and inline direction are, before then breaking it down into further details?

Everything on a web page is either an **inline** or **block** box.
The block and inline directions are determined by the writing mode of the document. They are not based on physical directions like left and right and top and bottom.

The _outer display_ type of boxes in a [normal flowing layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_display/Visual_formatting_model#normal_flow) determine how the box behaves alongside other elements on the page. Inline boxes are the boxes that wrap each line of text. Block boxes will extend in the inline direction to fill the space available in its container if {{cssxref("inline-size")}} is not specified.

> The _inline dimension_ is the dimension along which a line of text runs in the writing mode in use. The inline dimension is perpendicular to _block dimension_, the direction in which blocks — such as paragraphs — display one after the other. In an English document with the text running horizontally left-to-right, or an Arabic document with the text running horizontally right-to-left, the inline dimension is horizontal and the block dimension is vertical. In vertical writing mode, such as Japanese, the inline dimension vertical, as lines in that writing mode run vertically, while the block dimension is horizontal.

Author: both. updated a bit to make it clearer.

### Inline base and block flow directions

The _inline base direction_ is the primary direction in which content is ordered on a line and defines the "start" and "end" of a line are. The {{cssxref("direction")}} property specifies the inline base direction of a box and, together with the The {{cssxref("unicode-bidi")}} property and the inherent directionality of any text content, determines the ordering of inline-level content within a line.

The _block flow direction_ is the direction in which block-level boxes stack and the direction in which line boxes stack within a block container. The {{cssxref("writing-mode")}} property determines the block flow direction.

## Writing system modes

Different writing systems have different writing modes. A horizontal writing mode is one with horizontal lines of text, i.e., a downward or upward block flow. A vertical writing mode is one with vertical lines of text, i.e., a leftward or rightward block flow.

> Latin- and Slavic-based systems are typically written using a left-to-right inline direction with a top-to-bottom block flow direction. Some Latin-based languages include English, Spanish, Romanian, and Portuguese. Some Slavic-based languages include Ukrainian, Polish, and Czech.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Latin- and Slavic-based systems are typically written using a left-to-right inline direction with a top-to-bottom block flow direction. Latin-based languages include English, Spanish, Romanian, and Portuguese. Slavic-based languages include Ukrainian, Polish, and Czech.
```

```html
<p lang="en-US" dir="auto">This is written in English</p>
<p lang="lt-LT" dir="auto">Tai parašyta lietuviu kalba</p>
<p lang="el-GR" dir="auto">Αυτό είναι γραμμένο στα ελληνικά</p>
```

Arabic-based systems are typically written using a right-to-left inline direction with a top-to-bottom block flow direction. There are several horizontal right-to-left languages, including Arabic, Aramaic, Azeri, Divehi, Fula, Hebrew, Kurdish, N'ko, Persian, Rohingya, Syriac, and Urdu.

```html
<p lang="ur-PK" dir="auto">یہ اردو میں لکھا ہے۔</p>
<p lang="ku-CRB" dir="auto">ئەمە بە کوردی نووسراوە</p>
```

> Han-based systems are commonly written using a left-to-right inline direction with a top-to-bottom block flow direction, or a top-to-bottom inline direction with a right-to-left block flow direction. Traditionally, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean, and Japanese are written vertically in columns, going from top-top-bottom, with a right to left block direction, but online will often be rendered horizontally, going from left-to-right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Han-based systems are commonly written using a left-to-right inline direction with a top-to-bottom block flow direction, or a top-to-bottom inline direction with a right-to-left block flow direction. Traditionally, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean, and Japanese are written vertically in columns, going from top to bottom, with a right-to-left block direction, but will often be rendered horizontally online, going from left to right.
```

```html
<p lang="jp-JP" dir="auto">これはベトナム語で書かれています</p>
```

> Mongolian-based systems are typically written vertically, top to bottom, in columns that flow left to right; a top-to-bottom inline direction with a left-to-right block flow direction. This is different from Chinese, Japanese and Korean, whose vertical text columns are read right to left. It derives from the fact that this script descended from a script (Old Uyghur) that was written right to left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mongolian-based systems are typically written vertically, top to bottom, in columns that flow left to right; a top-to-bottom inline direction with a left-to-right block flow direction. This is different from Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, whose vertical text columns are read right to left. It derives from the fact that this script descended from a script (Old Uyghur) that was written right to left.
```

```html
<p lang="mn-MONG" dir="auto">Үүнийг монгол хэлээр бичжээ</p>
```

> To render the writing modes correctly, we make use of the global HTML [`dir`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/dir) attribute. Because browsers can turn off CSS styling, it is recommended to use the `dir` attribute and {{htmlelement("bdo")}} element to ensure correct bidirectional layout in the absence of a style sheet, rather than the CSS {{cssxref("direction")}} property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To render the writing modes correctly, we use the global HTML [`dir`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/dir) attribute. Because browsers can turn off CSS styling, it is recommended to use the `dir` attribute and {{htmlelement("bdo")}} element to ensure correct bidirectional layout in the absence of a style sheet, rather than the CSS {{cssxref("direction")}} property.
```

---
title: Introduction to writing mode systems
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_writing_modes/Writing_mode_systems
page-type: guide
sidebar: cssref
---

CSS supports different content directionalities, or **writing modes**, including right-to-left, left-to-right, and top-to-bottom. The guide provides a brief overview of writing mode systems and their directionalities.

## Block and inline

> Before looking into the directionality of various writing systems, it's important to understand the terms "block" and "inline". The term **inline** refers to the how characters and words flow within a line. The term **block** refers to how lines, or blocks of content, stack up. A document's block and inline directions are determined by the document's writing mode. They are not based on physical directions such as left, right, top, and bottom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before examining the directionality of various writing systems, it's important to understand the terms "block" and "inline". The term **inline** refers to how characters and words flow within a line. The term **block** refers to how lines, or blocks of content, stack up next to one another. The document's writing mode determines a document's block and inline directions. They are not based on physical directions such as left, right, top, and bottom.
```

### Dimensions and directions

> Everything on a web page is laid out in either the **inline** or **block** dimension. The _inline dimension_ is the dimension along which a line of text runs in the current writing mode. The inline dimension is perpendicular to _block dimension_, the dimension in which blocks — such as paragraphs — display one after the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything on a web page is laid out in either the **inline** or **block** dimension. The _inline dimension_ is the dimension along which a line of text runs in the current writing mode, whereas the _block dimension_ is the dimension in which blocks — such as paragraphs — display one after the other. The inline dimension is perpendicular to the block dimension.
```

> In an English document, with the text running horizontally left-to-right, or an Arabic document with the text running horizontally right-to-left, the inline dimension is horizontal, while the _inline direction_ is left-to-right and right-to-left, respectively. In both cases, the block dimension is vertical, with the _block direction_ being top-to-bottom. In vertical writing mode, such as Japanese, the inline dimension is vertical, as lines in that writing mode run vertically, while the block dimension is horizontal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an English document, with the text running horizontally left-to-right, or an Arabic document with the text running horizontally right-to-left, the inline dimension is horizontal, while the _inline direction_ is left-to-right and right-to-left, respectively. In both cases, the block dimension is vertical, with the _block direction_ being top-to-bottom. In a vertical writing mode such as Japanese, the inline dimension is vertical, as lines in that writing mode run vertically, while the block dimension is horizontal.
```

### Inline and block boxes

> The _outer display_ type of boxes in a [normal flowing layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_display/Visual_formatting_model#normal_flow) determine how the box behaves alongside other elements on the page. Inline boxes are the boxes that wrap each line of text and are laid out along the inline dimension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _outer display_ type of boxes in a [normal flowing layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_display/Visual_formatting_model#normal_flow) determines how the box behaves alongside other elements on the page. _Inline boxes_ wrap each line of text and are laid out along the inline dimension.
```
